You might have come across the terms Standard Error, Standard Deviation and other such statistical terms when trying to grasp the basics of Machine learning. Ever wondered what is the difference between Standard error and deviation. Well it turns out that the Standard Error of the mean is the standard deviation of the sampling distribution of the sample means. Well that was a mouthful. 

Let's break it up into smaller chunks. Like how we attack the inner most chunk of a nested loop, here let us start by understanding sampling distribution of sample means. Assuming that, we are trying to understand the mean height of adult(> 18 years of age) men in a country - India for instance. It is not a possible task to get the height of every adult. Hence we resort to sampling. We collect the heights of a smaller representative sample of size N and find the mean of this sample. We do this sampling process many times over - lets say 10000 times, each time picking a new sample of size N and calculating the mean. We then create a frequency distribution plot of these sample means (in other words, the x-axis would be the sample mean values and the y-axis would be the frequency count of each of these sample mean values) to get the sampling distribution of the sample means. 
Do you want to guess the shape of this sampling distribution of the sample means?

Yes you got it right - it would be a normal distribution with the middle values having the highest frequency. And more interestingly, though each of these sample means would have been off from the population mean by varying margins, the mean of these sample means would almost be the population mean. 
